You transform up to ten creatures of your choice that you can see within range. An unwilling target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw to resist the transformation. An unwilling shapechanger automatically succeeds on the save.
Each target assumes a beast form of your choice, and you can choose the same form or different ones for each target. The new form can be any beast you have seen whose challenge rating is equal to or less than the target’s (or half the target’s level, if the target doesn’t have a challenge rating). The target’s game statistics, including mental ability scores, are replaced by the statistics of the chosen beast, but the target retains its hit points, alignment, and personality.
Each target gains a number of temporary hit points equal to the hit points of its new form. These temporary hit points can’t be replaced by temporary hit points from another source. A target reverts to its normal form when it has no more temporary hit points or it dies. If the spell ends before then, the creature loses all its temporary hit points and reverts to its normal form.
The creature is limited in the actions it can perform by the nature of its new form. It can’t speak, cast spells, or do anything else that requires hands or speech. The target’s gear melds into the new form.
The target can’t activate, use, wield, or otherwise benefit from any of its equipment.

A spectral, floating hand appears at a point you choose within range. The hand lasts for the duration or until you dismiss it as an action. The hand vanishes if it is ever more than 30 feet away from you or if you cast this spell again.
You can use your action to control the hand. You can use the hand to manipulate an object, open an unlocked door or container, stow or retrieve an item from an open container, or pour the contents out of a vial. You can move the hand up to 30 feet each time you use it.
The hand can’t attack, activate magical items, or carry more than 10 pounds.

An immobile, invisible, cube-shaped prison composed of magical force springs into existence around an area you choose within range. The prison can be a cage or a solid box as you choose.
A prison in the shape of a cage can be up to 20 feet on a side and is made from 1/2-inch diameter bars spaced 1/2 inch apart.
A prison in the shape of a box can be up to 10 feet on a side, creating a solid barrier that prevents any matter from passing through it and blocking any spells cast into or out of the area.
When you cast the spell, any creature that is completely inside the cage's area is trapped. Creatures only partially within the area, or those too large to fit inside the area, are pushed away from the center of the area until they are completely outside the area.
A creature inside the cage can't leave it by nonmagical means. If the creature tries to use teleportation or interplanar travel to leave the cage, it must first make a Charisma saving throw. On a success, the creature can use that magic to exit the cage. On a failure, the creature can't exit the cage and wastes the use of the spell or effect. The cage also extends into the Ethereal Plane, blocking ethereal travel.
This spell can't be dispelled by dispel magic.

A shimmering wall of bright light appears at a point you choose within range. The wall appears in any orientation you choose: horizontally, vertically, or diagonally. It can be free floating, or it can rest on a solid surface. The wall can be up to 60 feet long, 10 feet high, and 5 feet thick. The wall blocks line of sight, but creatures and objects can pass through it. It emits bright light out to 120 feet and dim light for an additional 120 feet.
When the wall appears, each creature in its area must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 4d8 radiant damage, and it is blinded for 1 minute. On a successful save, it takes half as much damage and isn’t blinded. A blinded creature can make a Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.
A creature that ends its turn in the wall’s area takes 4d8 radiant damage.
Until the spell ends, you can use an action to launch a beam of radiance from the wall at one creature you can see within 60 feet of it. Make a ranged spell attack. On a hit, the target takes 4d8 radiant damage. Whether you hit or miss, reduce the length of the wall by 10 feet. If the wall’s length drops to 0 feet, the spell ends.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 5th.

A bright streak flashes from your pointing finger to a point you choose within range then blossoms with a low roar into an explosion of flame. Each creature in a 20-foot radius must make a Dexterity saving throw. A target takes 8d6 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The fire spreads around corners. It ignites flammable objects in the area that aren’t being worn or carried.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 3rd.

Dungeons & Dragons (commonly abbreviated as D&D or DnD)[2] is a fantasy tabletop role-playing game (TTRPG) originally created and designed by Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson.[3][4][5] The game was first published in 1974 by Tactical Studies Rules (TSR).[5] It has been published by Wizards of the Coast, later a subsidiary of Hasbro, since 1997. The game was derived from miniature wargames, with a variation of the 1971 game Chainmail serving as the initial rule system.[4][6] D&D's publication is commonly recognized as the beginning of modern role-playing games and the role-playing game industry,[5][7] which also deeply influenced video games, especially the role-playing video game genre.[8][9][10]
D&D departs from traditional wargaming by allowing each player to create their own character to play instead of a military formation. These characters embark upon adventures within a fantasy setting. A Dungeon Master (DM) serves as referee and storyteller for the game, while maintaining the setting in which the adventures occur, and playing the role of the inhabitants of the game world, known as non-player characters (NPCs). The characters form a party and they interact with the setting's inhabitants and each other. Together they solve problems, engage in battles, explore, and gather treasure and knowledge. In the process, player characters earn experience points (XP) to level up, and become increasingly powerful over a series of separate gaming sessions.[3][7][11] Players choose a class when they create their character, which gives them special perks and abilities every few levels.
The early success of D&D led to a proliferation of similar game systems. Despite the competition, D&D has remained the market leader in the role-playing game industry.[12][13] In 1977, the game was split into two branches: the relatively rules-light game system of basic Dungeons & Dragons, and the more structured, rules-heavy game system of Advanced Dungeons & Dragons (abbreviated as AD&D).[14][15][16] AD&D 2nd Edition was published in 1989. In 2000, a new system was released as D&D 3rd edition, continuing the edition numbering from AD&D; a revised version 3.5 was released in June 2003. These 3rd edition rules formed the basis of the d20 System, which is available under the Open Game License (OGL) for use by other publishers. D&D 4th edition was released in June 2008.[17] The 5th edition of D&D, the most recent, was released during the second half of 2014.[13]
In 2004, D&D remained the best-known,[18] and best-selling,[19] role-playing game in the US, with an estimated 20 million people having played the game and more than US$1 billion in book and equipment sales worldwide.[3] The year 2017 had "the most number of players in its history—12 million to 15 million in North America alone".[20] D&D 5th edition sales "were up 41 percent in 2017 from the year before, and soared another 52 percent in 2018, the game's biggest sales year yet".[13] The game has been supplemented by many premade adventures, as well as commercial campaign settings suitable for use by regular gaming groups.[21] D&D is known beyond the game itself for other D&D-branded products, references in popular culture, and some of the controversies that have surrounded it, particularly a moral panic in the 1980s that attempted to associate it with Satanism and suicide.[3][22][23] The game has won multiple awards and has been translated into many languages. 

The Dungeon Master (DM) assumes the role of the game master or referee and describes for other players what they perceive in the imaginary world of the game, and what effects their actions have.[4] That person is responsible for preparing each game session, and must have a thorough understanding of the game rules.[5] Since the inception of the Advanced Dungeons & Dragons system in 1977, these rules have been contained in three hardbound books: the Player's Handbook, Dungeon Master's Guide, and Monster Manual. Many other rulebooks exist as well, but these are not required for conducting the game.
The DM is responsible for narrative flow, creating the scenario and setting in which the game takes place, maintaining the pace and providing dynamic feedback.[6] In storyteller role, the DM is responsible for describing the events of the D&D game session and making rulings about game situations and effects based on the decisions made by the players. The DM can develop the adventure plot and setting in which these PCs participate or use a preexisting module. This is typically designed as a type of decision tree that is followed by the players, and a customized version can require several hours of preparation for each hour spent playing the game.[7]
The DM serves as the arbiter of the rules, both in teaching the rules to the players and in enforcing them. The rules provide game mechanics for resolving the outcome of events, including how the player's characters interact with the game world.[6] Although the rules exist to provide a balanced game environment, the DM is free to ignore the rules as needed. The DM can modify, remove, or create entirely new rules in order to fit the rules to the current campaign. This includes situations where the rules do not readily apply, making it necessary to improvise. An example would be if the PCs are attacked by a living statue. To destroy the enemy, one PC soaks the statue in water, while the second uses his cone of cold breath to freeze the water. At this point, he appeals to the DM, saying the water expands as it freezes and shatters the statue. The DM might allow it, or roll dice to decide. In the above example the probability roll might come up in favor of the players, and the enemy would be shattered. Conversely, rules do not fit all eventualities and may have unintended consequences. The DM must ultimately draw the line between the creative utilization of resources (e.g. firing wooden arrows into a dragon, then using a spell that warps wood at a distance) and an exploit (e.g. "horse bombing" - using a non-combat spell that creates a temporary mount, several dozen feet above an enemy). 

The Monster Manual (MM) is the primary bestiary sourcebook for monsters in the Dungeons & Dragons (D&D) fantasy role-playing game, first published in 1977 by TSR. The Monster Manual was the first hardcover D&D book and includes monsters derived from mythology and folklore, as well as creatures created specifically for D&D.
Creature descriptions include game-specific statistics (such as the monster's level or number of hit dice), a brief description of its habits and habitats, and typically an image of the creature.
Along with the Player's Handbook and Dungeon Master's Guide, the Monster Manual is one of the three "core rulebooks" in most editions of the D&D game.
As such, new editions of the Monster Manual have been released for each edition of D&D.
Due to the level of detail and illustration included in the 1977 release, the book was cited as a pivotal example of a new style of wargame books.
Future editions would draw on various sources and act as a compendium of published monsters. 

Myth criticism
Myth criticism is a system of anthropological interpretation of culture created by French philosopher Gilbert Durand. Scholars have used myth criticism to explain the mythical roots of contemporary fiction, which means that modern myth criticism needs to be interdisciplinary. Traditional myth critics like Georges Dumézil, Hans Blumenberg, Kurt Hübner, and Pierre Brunel have created paradigmatic systems and clarified the meanings of myths within their original sources, evolution, and con texts.
    "This approach proves effective when examining myths in pre-modern literature, identifying literary sources, tracing linguistic evolution, exploring intertextual relationships, and understanding social, psychological, and anthropological dimensions".[70]
Cultural myth criticism
Cultural myth criticism is a new creation in the myth criticism studies, proposed by José Manuel Losada in his book Mitocrítica cultural. Una definición del mito (2022), in which he offers his own methodological, hermeneutic and epistemological approach to myth. While assuming mythopoetical perspectives, cultural myth criticism takes a step further, incorporating the study of the transcendent dimension (its function, its disappearance) to evaluate the role of myth as a mirror of contemporary culture. It explores the functions of myth, the factors that influence the studies about it, and develops the criteria on how to analyse it[71]. The approach keeps in mind contemporary factors which affect the interpretation of mythology, such as globalisation (particularly its effect of uniformity over diversity of different cultures and, which therefore causes difficulty in conserving myths[72]) and consumerism[73]. Without abandoning the analysis of the symbolic, it invades all cultural manifestations and delves into the difficulties in understanding myth today. Cultural myth criticism studies mythical manifestations in fields as wide as literature, film and television, theater, sculpture, painting, video games, music, dancing, the Internet and other artistic fields. It is thought that this approach should adapt to the present world[74].
    "Myth criticism, a discipline that studies myths (mythology contains them, like a pantheon its statues), is by nature interdisciplinary: it combines the contributions of literary theory, the history of literature, the fine arts and the new ways of dissemination in the age of communication. Likewise, it undertakes its object of study from its interrelation with other human and social sciences, in particular sociology, anthropology and economics. The need for an approach, for a methodology that allows us to understand the complexity of the myth and its manifestations in contemporary times, is justified."[75]
Losada also explains the five main pillars on which the cultural myth criticism should base itself on:
    Cultural myth criticism must be nomothetic – myths usually share themes, causes and effects. Because of that, we are able to extract general structure of a myth and analyse it more thoroughly.
    Cultural myth criticism must be historical – that is, it should bring together different times.
    Cultural myth criticism must be philosophical – it should act in line with phenomenological philosophy.
    Cultural myth criticism must be relating to the numinous or divine – it should explore the supernatural of myth.
    Cultural myth criticism must be philological – an inevitable field of study to include n order to find meaning in a myth.[76]
The difference between the classic myth criticism and cultural myth criticism is their methodologies. The latter focuses on recognising the influence of the contemporary factors on our perception, seeking to "synthesise the evolution of myths within the complex contemporary context – tracking their origins, development, and processes of demystification and remythification"[77]. Losada focuses on designing a proper methodology of cultural myth criticism in order to make the process as inquisitive as possible.
Mythos
"Mythos" redirects here. For other uses, see Mythos (disambiguation).
Further information: Fictional universe
Because myth is sometimes used in a pejorative sense, some scholars have opted for mythos instead.[65] "Mythos" now more commonly refers to its Aristotelian sense as a "plot point" or to a body of interconnected myths or stories, especially those belonging to a particular religious or cultural tradition.[14] It is sometimes used specifically for modern, fictional mythologies, such as the world building of H. P. Lovecraft.
Mythopoeia
Mythopoeia (mytho- + -poeia, 'I make myth') was termed by J. R. R. Tolkien, amongst others, to refer to the "conscious generation" of mythology.[78][79] It was notoriously also suggested, separately, by Nazi ideologist Alfred Rosenberg.[citation needed]
Mytheme
Mythemes can be defined as themes with such transcendent or supernatural dimensions that they interact with other mythemes to form a myth[80]. In order to form a myth, at least two mythemes must combine in some way. Oftentimes, myths share them, but their distribution and position differ. If two stories have the exact same composition of mythemes, they are thought to be the same myth, but in a different variation[81].
According to José Manuel Losada, the term should not be confused with the storyline of a myth, stating that the storyline may be something which is not essential to the main plot, whereas a theme is always necesarry for the plotline. As an example, he gives the myth of Oedipus, in which the plague may be considered an event of the plot. The incest, however, is a mytheme, an essential part of the story[82]. 

An alternate reality game (ARG) is an interactive networked narrative that uses the real world as a platform and employs transmedia storytelling to deliver a story that may be altered by players' ideas or actions.
The form is defined by intense player involvement with a story that takes place in real time and evolves according to players' responses. It is shaped by characters that are actively controlled by the game's designers, as opposed to being controlled by an AI as in a computer or console video game. Players interact directly with characters in the game, solve plot-based challenges and puzzles, and collaborate as a community to analyze the story and coordinate real-life and online activities. ARGs generally utilize multimedia, ranging from websites, social media, videos and sound files to offline media such as telephones and mail. They usually rely on the Internet as the central binding medium.
ARGs tend to be free to play, with costs absorbed either through supporting products (e.g., collectible puzzle cards fund Perplex City) or through promotional relationships with existing products (for example, I Love Bees was a promotion for Halo 2, and the Lost Experience and Find 815 promoted the television show Lost). Pay-to-play models exist as well. Later games in the genre have shown an increasing amount of experimentation with new models and sub-genres. 

There is a great deal of debate surrounding the characteristics by which the term "alternate reality game" should be defined. Sean Stacey, the founder of the website Unfiction, has suggested that the best way to define the genre was not to define it, and instead locate each game on three axes (ruleset, authorship and coherence) in a sphere of "chaotic fiction" that would include works such as the Uncyclopedia and street games like SF0 as well.[1]
Several experts, though, point to the use of transmedia, "the aggregate effect of multiple texts/media artifacts,"[2] as the defining attribute of ARGs. This prompts the unique collaboration emanating from ARGs as well; Sean Stewart, founder of 42 Entertainment, which has produced various successful ARGs, speaks to how this occurs, noting that "the key thing about an ARG is the way it jumps off of all those platforms. It's a game that's social and comes at you across all the different ways that you connect to the world around you."[2]
Most ARGs do not have any fixed rules—players discover the rules and the boundaries of the game through trial and error—and do not require players to assume fictional identities or roleplay beyond feigning belief in the reality of the characters they interact with (even if games where players play 'themselves' are a long-standing variant on the genre).[3] 

Perplex City is an alternative reality game whose story unfolds through a series of collectible puzzle cards. Eventually, 256 cards total were released in four waves. The main objective of the game is to search for a cube named "The Receda Cube", a cube that is physically buried somewhere on Earth, whose location is hinted at through the collectible cards.[1] Every collectible card had a scratch panel that hid a unique code that players can use to track their progress in solving the game. Additionally, each card has an individual puzzle that can be solved outside the main objective of the game.
Clues in the card may lead players to websites, blogs, emails, telephone numbers in the real world, and characters in the game "communicated" with players using blogs, such as in the case of Violet and Scarlett Kiteway,[3] daughters of the Master of the Academy, the organization responsible for maintaining the cube. Players are also encouraged to contribute to the in-universe, online newspaper, The Sentinel, where players can communicate with each other and characters in the game to solve the puzzles.
Puzzle cards
Mind Candy marketed a range of puzzle cards as collectibles, which they sold in foil packs. Each foil pack contained six random cards which were selected from a pool of 256 cards. The cards were categorized into sets and further into subsets based on their rarity and difficulty levels. Unlike collectible card games such as Magic: The Gathering or Pokémon, the cards are not designed for competitive player-versus-player "combat." Instead, each card depicts a different puzzle, with the rarer cards also featuring more complex riddles. Cards were marked with unique identifiers, which could then be entered onto the Perplex City website, earning points and a place on a leaderboard. Many cards contained hidden features, such as ultraviolet or heat-sensitive inks, and they covered a broad range of themes, from pop-culture trivia to cryptography and logic brainteasers.[4]
Each card was a member of a four-card set. If all four cards were solved by a player, they received double points for each card in the set.
Notable cards
Riemann (S1, Card #238) asks players to prove the Riemann hypothesis. As the solution to Riemann hypothesis is currently unknown, this card is currently unsolved and is the only remaining unsolved card.[1] The Scientific Advisory Board of the Clay Mathematics Institute offers a USD 1 million prize for solving this problem along with others in the Millennium Prize Problems.
The Thirteenth Labour (S1, Card #251) asks players to solve a 352 character cipher encrypted with a RC5.64 cipher that was expected to take 30,000 computers working simultaneously for several months to solve at the time of its release.[5] The cipher was cracked by a user Paraboloid13 in February 2010.[6] While the solution was verified as correct, the user declined to share both the answer and the method they used to solve the puzzle.
Billion to One (S1, Card #256) features the face of a man with a caption in Japanese that reads 私を見つけなさい, which translates to "Find Me." A hint line for the game gave the further clue, "My name is Satoshi." His image was spread via social networking sites in an attempt to locate and make contact with this person as an experiment in exploring the concept of six degrees of separation.[7][8] The card was solved in December 2020 when the man in question was found by Tom-Lucas Säger and reported to Laura E. Hall, who ran the website tracking information about the hunt.[9] In an email, Satoshi explained that the original concept had been for him to ask a question of whoever found him.[10] Since he had forgotten the question, the puzzle author Jey Biddulph posted a recording of the spoken question on SoundCloud. It was "Who died after giving birth to flames?" with the answer "Izanami."
Out of print cards
Two cards are no longer in circulation. The cards were excluded from wave-three print runs because they did not fit on the print layout. While these problems have been rectified, Mind Candy has no plans to replace or reprint these cards in the future. They are:
    Riemann (S1, Card #238) was chosen to be excluded due to the complete inability of the card to be solved for the foreseeable future.
    Relativity (S1, Card #245) was chosen to be excluded more or less at random, but the decision was likely influenced by the fact that the problem and solution are quite complex.
